## Smallpox transmission and control: Spatial dynamics in Great Britain

$R_0$ - average number of secondary infections generated by a typically infectious individual in an otherwise susceptible population.

$\theta$ - the proportion of infections that occur before the onset of symptoms is defined to be $\theta$.

"Interventions that rely on the
recognition of symptoms to reduce transmission, such as case
isolation and contact tracing, are more likely to be successful when $\theta$ is small than when it is large."

$R_0^*$ - the expected number of secondary infectiosn generated by a randomly chosen infectious individual in an otherwise susceptible population.

$a$ -  the household attack rate, which we
defined to be the proportion of susceptible household members
infected by a single infectious individual

#### Model

Agent-based model of disease progression and transmission in a population of $N$ individuals. $k_i$ is the disease state of the $i$th individual, where $i$ ranges from 1 to $N$. (see fig 1)

The structure of the model allowed for transmission in three settings: household, peer-group network, and community. During any period of time $\Delta t$ the probability that individual $i$ in disease state $k_i$ infected individual $j$ in disease state $k_j = 0$ was defined as follows:

$$
P_\text{inf}(i,k_i,j) = I_{HH}(i,j) (1 - e^{-\beta h_k h_{h/w} \Delta t} ) + I_{PGN}(i,j) (1 - e^{-\beta h_k \Delta t}) + b(i, j, \Delta t) h_k \kappa_{NT} (| \mathbf{r}_i - \mathbf{r}_j|) \quad (1)
$$

The first two terms of (1) correspond to household and peer-group network transmission respectively. 

- $I_{HH}$ is an indicator function, equal to 1 only if $i$ and $j$ share a household, and is equal to 0 otherwise.
- $I_{PGN}(i,j)$ is the indicator function for $i$ and $j$ sharing a peer-group network link.
- $\beta$ is the underlying hazard of infection for transmission within the household and across the peer-group network during the fever stage ($k_i=2$).
- $h_k$ is a stage specific relative hazard of infection and is equal to 1 when individual $i$ is in the fever stage ($k_i=2$) and equal to $h_{r/f}$ when in either rash stages ($k_i=3$ or 4), and equal to 0 otherwise.

Households were of average size $s_h$ and their sizes are distributed as $1 + P(s_h - 1)$ where $P(\mu)$ is the Poission distribution with mean $\mu$. Each household had a location
consistent with the 1991 GB census (www.statistics.gov.uk), chosen by using a simple accept-reject algorithm with a 1-km 2 resolution.

A peer-group is a spatial location where individuals spend a substantial proportion of their time outside the home, and where they tended, on average, to meet the same people.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTI4MzcwODAzNywtMTM0NTUxMzI3MCwtNT
Q5MzM4NDk3LDE3NTExODgyMDcsLTEyNjU2ODE1MDIsMjA2MTk0
NzcyNSwyMTIzNTczNDY0LDUyODk5MTAzNCw0OTc1NDQ4NjcsMT
c4Njc5ODc1MSwxMjk4NDQ1OTkxXX0=
-->